We've got all that in place,
we've got the CSS modules,
what we don't have is any of
the type annotations, right?
And if you don't use TypeScript,
that's great, but
even if you don't use TypeScript, I think
for a lot of, like VS Code will still
like read the types even in regular
JavaScript, at least give you hints.
So you saw it before we used
defineConfig in Vite,
that it knew kind of the the answers,
right?
So, there is a fun plug in
called vite-plugin-dts,
which will basically for
any TypeScript, scan through it,
and go ahead and create the dts file for
you in that library.
So npm installed as
a development dependency,
this vite-plugins.dts,
and to no one's surprise,
we can go pull it in,
it's a default exports, I can call it.
We'll say,
import dts from 'vite-plugin-dts',
great, we'll put that in there as well.
And it takes some options,
there's a whole bunch,
what I really like is to,
what's the one that I'm looking for?
Let's see, I'll start typing.
I don't wanna roll,
lets say PluginOptions,
see, sometimes this TypeScript stuff is neat.
All right, so you've got route, I want
all the same things in here as well.
What I want, I think I want
insert type entry roll up types.
Which is declarationOnly,
trying to remember which one I want.
Let's just run it and see what we get in
the beginning, and we'll go from there.
So, run build.
So you can see at this point it did create
really, everything at this point, right?
And we could,
we could deal with that a little bit,
it's not really bothering we've got
this main.dts, we've got actually,
in our components, all the dts files for
everything in this case.
My components aren't in there though which
is kinda like a little bit squirrely,
there is an option in roll up to do,
I believe it goes in the output or
we could say, PreserveModules is true, and
you can kinda see how that changes it.
I know it's conflicting
with another option, but
that's actually not the one
that I care about so much.
So if I run it with nothing,
we see that I get everything as
if I was building a full app.
I don't need the SVG from
the React template in my library,
unless you need it, but I don't, right?
In this case, I've got,
what I really wanna do is say, okay,
we wanna put it all together, but we want
to just say what's in source components.
If I run this, you'll see that
I'm a little bit better, right?
It didn't pull in all of the other stuff,
like the application and
everything that I'm running this code in.
But it does include that SVG again, and so
the way to handle this is pretty simple,
which is we can go in here,
and we can basically,
in the build options, we can say,
copyPublicDir false, right?
And this, yeah, if you didn't want
the public directory in your regular app,
that would do the trick too, but
like in this case, we won't,
we don't want anything from there.
And so now we've got the style,
we've got the various files,
we've got the button.dts in here as well,
and we've got a bunch of that in place.
Now, if you did wanna also build the app,
you could have two vite configs and
you can do a --config on the vite
command and say, okay, for the library,
we wanna build this.
For the regular app,
we just use the regular base one,
you can have multiple vite configs,
and it will totally work.
It was just like if you did npx
vite --config, and in my case,
I only have the one, button,
it will run that configuration,
that was for the, we do it for build.
If I had a different configuration for the
app versus the library, we would get those
in place as well, so you could have
multiple configurations at this point too.